Nearly 40 tons of medical aid
and disaster
relief supplies for Gaza left
India for Egypt this morning.
This is according to India's
Ministry of External Affairs.
Despite the Rafah crossing
opening for a short time
yesterday to allow trucks
with aid, 20 trucks to be exact,
to pass through.
It remains unclear
if or when the border will reopen today.
CNN's Priscilla Alvarez
joining us now
with how President Biden is responding
to the humanitarian efforts.
Priscilla.
Well, in a statement just yesterday,
the president
attributed this to days
of diplomatic engagement
at the highest level.
Of course, these attacks.
But eight trucks passing through happened
on the heels of President Biden's
trip to Israel,
as well as secretary of State
Antony Blinken.
High stakes shuttle diplomacy
over the last several days.
Now, in a statement,
the president went on to note
that this is a critical and urgent need,
saying, quote,
I made it clear
from the outset
of this crisis in both
my public statements
and private conversations
that humanitarian assistance
was a critical and urgent need
that had to get moving.
And I express my deep
personal appreciation
for the leadership of President
al-Sisi, of Egypt, Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel
and the United Nations
to allow the resumption
of this assistance.
And, of course,
we should also mention
that President Biden
did speak with Egypt's president
this week,
where the two agreed for this crossing
to be opened.
But, of course, this remains a challenge.
We have heard from aid organizations
who have welcomed
the trucks
that have been able
to pass into Gaza so far.
But they note
that this can only be the beginning.
They still need so much more.
So the White House still working on
trying to facilitate that,
working with their counterparts
in the region, while
also keeping a focus
on getting Palestinian Americans
out of Gaza,
which they have still not been able
to do.
Amara.
Victor Alvarez for us, thanks so much.
Joining us
now is the Belfast
spokesperson for the Palestine
Red Crescent Society.
Thank you for being with us.
Let me start with the 17 trucks in Egypt
waiting at the Rafah crossing,
hoping to get into Gaza.
Our reporters have spoken with those.
Truck drivers say they're optimistic.
What can you tell us about
what's on the trucks and the probability
that they'll get across that
border today?
Good evening.
Thanks for having me.
So, yes,
as you highlighted,
there are dozens of the trucks
who are still waiting after
crossing the border, waiting to get
into Gaza.
What we have received up
to now
is a tow truck hoping
this will be a glimpse of hope
for the entry of the rest of the trucks,
because
20 trucks is only like a drop
in the ocean of need.
We still need a lot in terms of food,
even water.
2 million Palestinian civilians
now are with no food or even water
besides electricity,
as well as not only one hospital,
all hospitals in Gaza are witnessing
a collapse,
the state of having shortages
and medicine,
medical supplies,
as well as running out of the fuel.
And by the way, if fuel was not also
delivered by the first shipment
of the humanitarian aid,
which included food,
water, medical supply and medicine,
but not fields.
Are you getting any indication
as to when,
if at all, there will be a sustained
delivery of aid into Gaza?
So basically, all the
international organizations,
along with countries,
have been working
due to all the last week long
to get the aid there.
And hopefully now after this aid
was already in
to continue
working and advocating
for the entry of the humanitarian aid.
This this should not be a one time.
We need a humanitarian corridor
to allow the entry of medical supplies
and the humanitarian aid
at all the time in a safe way
to guarantee to fulfill the needs
of the humanitarian situation
now in Gaza,
because the humanitarian situation
is literally catastrophic,
whether in terms of extreme
shortages of food and water
or even hospitals
who are now running out of fuel.
And without the fuel, simply
all hospitals can't operate.
And that electricity means
killing thousands
of Palestinian civilians who were injured
and now inside the hospital.
So all of the aid does not include fuel.
That's why
we still count
on the international community
to keep advocating for the entry
of the humanitarian aid,
not only from the border,
but from all borders
to control the from the Israelis,
because as an occupying power
has a responsible military to ensure
to provide
the essential needs
for civilians in Gaza,
as well as hospitals who are implementing
their health care worker services.
And this should be not continued.
Health
care facilities and hospitals,
along with civilians,
should not pay the price
and should be protected and respected
according to the.
Item that the Israelis concern
is that the fuel, if it gets
in, will make it to Hamas.
Let me ask you about the latest
leaflets dropped by IDF
that and the Israelis contest this
CNN translation.
But it is that if
Palestinians do not move
south, they may be seem
partners of the terrorists.
What can you tell us about
your organization's ability to provide
aid to northern Gaza
if the order from
the IDF is to move south?
We know that there are still
many thousands of Palestinians who are in
northern Gaza.
Yeah, let me clarify something.
In the targeted area
where Israel and threatened
to be evacuated
around a million and 200,000 Palestinians
who are live and the Gaza and the north.
Hundreds of thousands of Palestinians
were still stuck in Gaza, in their homes
or any schools or even hospitals.
They couldn't find their way
to evacuate themselves
simply because of that
and asking people
to evacuate themselves
under continuous bombardment.
Besides, there is no transportation,
complete destruction
of the roads and infrastructure.
So absolutely, they have no way to go to.
They don't have an option
to choose either.
It's the same case
for hospitals because Israel
not only asking civilians
to evacuate themselves
under continuous bombardment,
evacuation orders
from Israeli occupation forces
for around a 20 foot hospital in Gaza
and then ordered to evacuate,
which are absolutely impossible
to implement W at all, has announced that
evacuation orders for hospitals
are impossible to implement
and they constitute a death penalty
for the patients.
Our hospital is one of the hospital
that have received the evacuation order.
We have 500 patients,
some of them in the intensive care unit,
and we will not be able and accept
to rest the lives of our patients,
most of them, or to.
Ensure an impossible situation
for those hospitals as well.
Nebel of gaza. Thank you very much.